# Tax-Calculator-2025
The main point of this program is to demonstrate my ability to code and create a project. For this purpose, I have created a tax calculator for the year 2025. I was originally going to make it for the year 2026, but tax laws change all the time. I wouldn’t need to worry about laws for the year 2025 changing, and the point of this project isn’t to make an actual product, but rather to demonstrate my ability to code. This program calculates approximately how much state income taxes, federal income taxes, and FICA are owed based off of yearly income, state, and filing status. It uses a SQL database to hold all of the tax brackets. In C#, the user enters their yearly income, state, and filing status. There is also a box to check for if above the age of 65 or blind, for which additional federal tax deductions apply. C# calculates standard deductions to get how much income is taxable on the state and federal level. It then uses Dapper to get from the database all the brackets for state and filing status. To factor for marginal brackets, I make a list of all the brackets for federal and the user’s selected state for the filing status selected. I use a foreach statement to go through the list and only tax income for each bracket it fits into (marginal brackets), and if the user’s income is below the top bracket, the foreach loop ends there instead of going through the remaining brackets unnecessarily. Then C# applies FICA rates and rules to the user’s income. Finally, the program displays how much the user would pay in state income taxes, federal income taxes, and FICA.
